# Background and justification of selected algorithm

# Introduction
Ocean salinity is a key physical-chemical variable that critically contributes to the density-driven global ocean circulation and the Earth’s climate (Siedler et al., 2001). The Sea Surface Salinity (SSS) is affected by (and thus reflects) the air-sea freshwater fluxes (Wust, 1936; Schmitt, 2008; Durack et al, 2012; Skliris et al 2014; Zika et al 2015), ice formation/melting, river runoff, horizontal advection and vertical exchanges through mixing and entrainment. It also provides fundamental information for ocean bio-geochemistry through its links with the carbonate system (Land et al., 2015, 2019; Fine et al., 2017).  Stable fresh surface salinity layers (such as river plumes, rain-induced lenses) on top of saltier and denser deep waters can inhibit the upper-ocean mixing generated by intense atmospheric events (e.g., wind bursts, tropical cyclones) due to so-called barrier layer effect (e.g., Lukas and Lindstrom, 1991; Balaguru et al., 2012). This suggests that mixed layer salinity can actively impact air-sea interactions from local to synoptic scales. Given its importance for many key ocean and climate processes, the SSS has been recognized as an Essential Climate Variable (ECV) by the Global Climate Observing System (GCOS) program. 
Bingham et al. (2002) examined the global distribution of historical (1874-1998) in situ SSS observations measured at 5 m or less in depth from the World Ocean Database 1998 (WOD98) and showed how poorly SSS was sampled by the end of the 1990s, despite a peak period of ocean sampling (including near surface salinity) during the World Ocean Circulation Experiment (WOCE, 1990-1998). The Global Ocean Data Assimilation Experiment (GODAE) group, therefore, estimated that it would be necessary to develop global SSS measurements from both in situ sensor networks and dedicated satellite missions to reach an accuracy of about 0.1-0.2 pss  at monthly and $100 \times 100  km^2$, or 10-day and $200 \times 200 km^2$ scales. 
Tremendous efforts to reach this goal using in situ sensor networks have been carried out by the ocean science community since the early 2000s. At global scale, the large increase in salinity data sampling is dominantly associated with the invention and deployment of the Argo profiler network. Since reaching its full planned capacity in 2007, the network includes ~3000 Argo floats in the global Ocean providing at least one salinity cast every 10 days in a 3$^{\circ}\times$3$^{\circ}$ cell (see Argo, 2000).  In addition to Argo floats which profile to the top 2 km of the global ocean column, near surface salinity is monitored by thermosalinographs (TSG) on board numerous ships of opportunity and research vessels.  These TSGs are installed and maintained on board ships via international programs such as the Global Ocean Surface Underway Data (GOSUD; Alory et al. 2015) and the Shipboard Automated Meteorological and Oceanographic System (SAMOS; Smith et al., 2009), as well as a growing number of deployments of surface drifters equipped with salinity sensors. 

Despite its oceanographic importance, SSS is an ocean ECV that only started to be estimated from space about ten years ago with the launch of the Soil Moisture and Ocean Salinity (SMOS) mission by the European Space Agency (ESA) in November 2009. The SMOS mission was then followed by the NASA/CONAE Aquarius/SAC-D mission also focused on the sea surface salinity. Both missions had an overlapping period between June 2011 and mid-2015. Next came the NASA Soil Moisture Active-Passive (SMAP) mission launched in early 2015, which also monitors SSS. SMOS and SMAP operation periods overlapped with Aquarius only during about four months (February to June 2015). The primary sensors onboard these three missions are L-band microwave radiometers operating at ~1.4 GHz (wavelength=21cm). When accurate corrections for external contributions to the measured radiometer signal are applied (e.g., radiation from the Sun and celestial radio sources, reflection/emission due to sea surface roughness, and temperature), the SSS can be estimated from L-band brightness temperature TB (Font et al., 2004; Lagerloef and Le Vine, 1995). The feasibility of the measurement of SSS at L-band was demonstrated in the 1970s in a number of field campaigns from aircraft (Droppelman et al, 1970), from a bridge which spans the  Cape Cod canal (Swift, 1974), and even with a satellite radiometer from the short-lived (2-week) Skylab S-194 mission (Lerner and Hollinger, 1977). 
It took more than 40 years after the aforementioned pioneer experiments to develop and implement instruments to measure SSS regularly from space with sufficient accuracy and spatial resolution to address the GODAE recommendation. Two major technological factors limit L-band SSS measurements from space. First, at low microwave frequencies (decimeter wavelengths), classical radiometer sensors require large antenna size of ~3 to 8 m in diameter to meet a useful spatial resolution on the ground (100-150 km at most, 30-50 km wished for). Such large antenna technologies were not available before the late 1990s. Second, while being optimal in low microwave frequencies (see Figure 3), the sensitivity of the sea surface brightness temperature to salinity at 1.4 GHz and vertical (VV) polarization varies only between (∂T_B)⁄(∂SSS )~ -0.5 to -1 K/pss for incidence angles from 0° to 60° at characteristic ocean conditions (SSS= 35pss and Sea Surface Temperature (SST)=15°C). This sensitivity to SSS remains relatively small compared to (i) noise characteristics of  available radiometers (~0.3 to 2 K) and (ii) the small range of natural variability of SSS in the open ocean (32 to 38 pss). Finally, as illustrated in Figure 3b, (∂T_B)⁄(∂SSS ) also decreases with decreasing SST from ~-0.7 K/pss at 30°C to ~ -0.2 K/pss at 0°C making SSS estimation in the high latitude cold waters even more challenging than in the tropics. Given the sensitivity of T_B  to salinity at 1.4 GHz, very low noise radiometers and/or a large number of T_B observations for a given ocean scene within short integration times (~a few seconds) are required for accurate SSS estimations. 
Therefore, salinity satellite mission objectives are generally expected to be reached for SSS products obtained after spatio-temporal averaging of in-swath instantaneous data. SMOS, Aquarius, and SMAP missions have provided the first SSS data from space now spanning 13 years (2010-2022). 

# Historical Heritage
In the late 1960s, Sirounian (1968) and Paris (1969) recognized that ocean surface microwave emission in the 1 to 3 GHz range had measurable sensitivity to changes in ocean SSS. The first airborne salinity measurements were demonstrated in 1970 by Droppleman et al., (1970). Combining aircraft mounted 1.4 GHz microwave and 11 µm infrared radiometers, they were able to observe strong SSS gradients near the mouth of the Mississippi River, and thus demonstrate the feasibility of 1.4-GHz passive radiometers to detect sea water salinity gradients. 
Multi-frequency (L-, X- and K-bands) microwave radiometer observations conducted by Hollinger (1971) from a research tower located off the island of Bermuda revealed the potential effect of sea surface roughness on L-band TB for wind speed conditions varying from calm to 15 m/s. Thomann (1976) used a system similar to Droppleman et al., (1970) to map ocean surface salinity in the Gulf of Mexico. As reviewed in Goodberlet et al. (1997), these early instruments could achieve an acceptable measurement accuracy only by averaging over time periods from 12 to 16 seconds. The averaging time was later reduced below 1 second using a NASA Langley built precise radiometer system (Blume et al., 1978; Blume and Kendall, 1982) operating at 1.4 GHz (L-band) and 2.65 GHz (S-band). Its improved noise characteristics (and lower integration times) allowed improvement in spatial resolution and measurements in the Chesapeake Bay SSS that resolvede ~0.5 km spatial scales. The dual-frequency radiometer system was also successfully operated from an aircraft (Kendall and Blanton, 1981) to measure quasi-synoptic salinity changes induced by the Savannah River plume along the coast of Georgia.
A key model component for the salinity retrieval algorithm from microwave radiometer data is the model for the sea water dielectric constant, ϵ. The semi-empirical Debye model was first proposed by Stogryn (1971) and re-analyzed by Klein and Swift (1977) to include new S-band and L-band data from the NASA 2-band radiometer. Shutko et al. (1982) further examined and refined the dependencies of ϵ on electromagnetic frequency, water temperature, and salinity. In addition, near nadir L-band measurements from the Bering Sea aircraft experiments as reported by Webster et al., (1976) allowed for better characterization of wind speed dependence of the surface emissivity.
First attempts to measure SSS from space took place in 1968 aboard the Soviet Cosmos 243 and in 1973 aboard the Skylab S-194 satellite missions (Lerner and Hollinger, 1977). They utilized nadir looking L-band horizontal (HH) microwave radiometers with 3dB beam width of 15° corresponding to ~110 km ground footprint. Unfortunately, only a very limited amount of L-band radiometer data were collected and there were no in situ measurements available to validate SSS retrievals estimated from the satellite data. Nevertheless, the retrieved SSS was found correlating with climatological in situ salinity. Overall, these experiments showed that open sea SSS (i.e., away from the land and coasts) could be measured with an accuracy of ~2 pss, a promising early result.
Based on these first aircraft and satellite experiments, Swift and McIntosh (1983) suggested a revised satellite concept to achieve an ideal precision of about 0.25 pss with a footprint spatial resolution of ~100 km. However, at that time, space agencies were primarily devoting efforts to develop missions to measure surface temperature (Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometers (AVHRRs) and Along-Track Scanning Radiometers (ATSRs); e.g. see the overview given in Merchant et al., 2019), surface dynamic topography (Geosat (GEOdetic SATellite), Cheney et al., 1989), wind stress (SEASAT A Scatterometer (SASS), Brown et al., 1983), ocean color (Coastal Zone Color Scanner (CZCS), Hovis 1980), and sea ice (scanning multichannel microwave radiometer (SMMR), Gloersen et al., 1984). Mainly because of the technological challenges associated with the launch of sensors with large antenna size and the need for high radiometric sensitivity, salinity remote sensing was considered too costly and not given a high priority in the early 1980s. 
Interest in salinity remote sensing was renewed in the late 1980s with the development of an airborne demonstration instrument called the Electrically Scanning Thinned Array Radiometer (ESTAR), which was operated at 1.4 GHz and used the concept of aperture synthesis (Le Vine et al., 1990) allowing an increase in cross-track spatial resolution. Small salinity variations typical of the open ocean were retrieved from the data acquired by the ESTAR interferometer during flights across a coastal current in Delaware and the Gulf Stream (Le Vine et al., 1998). Such a system demonstrated that it was feasible to achieve high spatial and radiometric resolution at a reasonable cost for a potential 1.4 GHz satellite radiometer design.
By the mid-1990s, the Scanning Low Frequency Microwave Radiometer (SLFMR) was built (Goodberlet and Swift, 1993) based on the similar concept as the ESTAR but with an improved radiometric resolution and adapted for light aircraft. Salinity in coastal and estuarine waters on the U.S. Atlantic coasts, as well as in the Australian Great Barrier reef waters have been mapped successfully using the SLFMR data acquired during several airborne campaigns (Robinson, 1994; Le Vine et al., 1998; Miller et al., 1998; Burrage et al., 2003; Miller et al., 2004; Perez et al., 2006). A detailed review of remote sensing of SSS in coastal waters is provided in Klemas (2011).
A Passive-Active L-band System (PALS) (Wilson et al., 2001) providing coincident scatterometer and radiometer airborne L-band data was developed to better characterize the sea surface roughness impact on L-band TB. This instrument was deployed on ocean flights across the Gulf Stream in an attempt to illustrate the use of active scatterometer data to correct the impact of surface roughness on passive radiometer data (Yueh et al., 2001). The PALS design and data provided the basis for the NASA Aquarius and SMAP instrument designs.
In 1995, during the "Soil Moisture and Ocean Salinity" Workshop organized at the ESA ESTEC (European Space Research and Technology Centre, Noordwijk, the Netherlands), possible techniques to remotely measure SSS from space were discussed. The two most suitable approaches were identified to be L-band microwave radiometry using either real or synthetic, aperture antenna design.  The use of a real aperture antenna with moderate size (diameter < 3m) eases sensor integration into a launch vehicle and better fulfills satellite weight constraints but results in lower spatial resolution on the ground. This option was realized for the Aquarius mission with a moderately large antenna (reflector diameter ~2.5m) used in the push broom mode (Figure 4). Another concept was realized for the SMAP mission, which has a relatively large deployable mesh antenna reflector of 6 meters in diameter (Figure 5). Both Aquarius and SMAP instruments were designed with combined active and passive measurements. 
The second approach involves the use of interferometric radiometers with a synthetic aperture antenna allowing TB measurements at higher spatial resolution than with a real-aperture antenna of the same size. The ESTAR interferometric 1-D imaging concept evolved into a 2-D imager in the mid-1990s (Goutoule et al., 1996). Its airborne prototype was made and operated (Bayle et al., 2002) and then further evolved into the Microwave Imaging Radiometer with Aperture Synthesis (MIRAS), the instrument carried by the SMOS mission (Figure 6).




Text describing background

Example figure. Figure numbering should be chronological, following the numbering of the figures in previous chapters.

Starting points for the optimisation are sampled on a length-angle
regular grid around point $(0,0)$ as on {numref}`startpoints`.


```{figure} ./startpoints.png
--- 
name: startpoints
---
Location of the preliminary function evaluations for choosing starting points to the Nelder Mead algorithm. The circle locates the limit of vality domain $\mathbf{D}$.
```

We can also refer to the figure this way: {ref}`Starting points for the optimisation <startpoints>`

Here is a math block
$
  \int_0^\infty \frac{x^3}{e^x-1}\,dx = \frac{\pi^4}{15}
$

Here are labeled and numbered equations

```{math}
:label: my_label
w_{t+1} = (1 + r_{t+1}) s(w_t) + y_{t+1}
```

```{math}
:label: my_other_label
w_{t+2} = (1 + r_{t+2}) s(w_t) + y_{t+2}
```
